# OEM2 — OEM2 TASK 1: EDA: EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS

**EXPLORATORY DATA ANALYSIS — D207 PRFA — OEM2**

**TASK OVERVIEW **SUBMISSIONS EVALUATION REPORT

# COMPETENCIES

## **4030.04.01 **: **Data Interpretation**

The graduate interprets central tendency, correlations, and variations
to inform organizational decisions.

## **4030.04.02 **: **Conducting Parametric or Categorical Testing**

The graduateconducts parametric hypothesis testing.

# INTRODUCTION

An organization has collected raw data to analyze its operations and
support its decision-making processes. The raw data ﬁles from the Data
Cleaning course have been cleaned and prepared for exploratory analysis.

To compete this assessment, you will access a data dictionary ﬁle and
its corresponding data ﬂat ﬁle. You will analyze the data set using
speciﬁc techniques, create visualizations, and deliver the results of
your analysis.

*Note: This assessment requires you to submit pictures, graphics, and/or
diagrams. Each ﬁle must be a supporting document no larger than 30 MB in
size. Diagrams must be original and may be hand-drawn or drawn using a
graphics program. Do not use CAD programs because the ﬁle will be too
large.*

# SCENARIO

For this task, you will select one of the Data Dictionary and the
matching Data Set ﬁles from the following link:

You will review the Data Dictionary to understand the needs of the
company and to prepare to analyze the data. In this assessment, you will
analyze the .csv data ﬁle, also referred to as the data set.

You do not need to choose the same data ﬁle that you selected for the
Data Cleaning course, but it is recommended that you do so.

# REQUIREMENTS

*Your submission must be your original work. No more than a combined
total of 30% of the submission and no more than a 10% match to any one
individual source can be directly quoted or closely paraphrased from
sources, even if cited correctly. The originality report that is
provided when you submit your task can be used as a guide.*

*You must use the rubric to direct the creation of your submission
because it provides detailed criteria that will be used to evaluate your
work. Each requirement below may be evaluated by more than one rubric
aspect. The rubric aspect titles may contain hyperlinks to relevant
portions of the course.*

1.  Describe a real-world organizational situation or issue in the Data
    Dictionary you chose, by doing the following:

    1.  Provide **one **question that is relevant to your chosen data
        set. You will answer this question later in the task through an
        analysis of the cleaned data, using one of the following
        techniques: chi-square, t-test, or analysis of variance (ANOVA).

    2.  Explain how stakeholders in the organization could beneﬁt from
        an analysis of the data.

    3.  Identify *all *of the data in your data set that are relevant to
        answering your question in part A1.

<!-- -->

1.  Describe the data analysis by doing the following:

    1.  Using one of the following techniques, write code (in either
        Python or R) to run the analysis of the data set:

        - chi-square

        - t-test

        - ANOVA

    <!-- -->

    1.  Provide the output and the results of *any *calculations from
        the analysis you performed.

    2.  Justify why you chose this analysis technique.

<!-- -->

1.  Identify the distribution of **two **continuous variables and **two
    **categorical variables using univariate statistics from your
    cleaned and prepared data.

    1.  Represent your ﬁndings in Part C, visually as part of your
        submission.



1.  Identify the distribution of **two **continuous variables and **two
    **categorical variables using bivariate statistics from your cleaned
    and prepared data.

    1.  Represent your ﬁndings in Part D, visually as part of your
        submission.


1.  Summarize the implications of your data analysis by doing the
    following:

    1.  Discuss the results of the hypothesis test.

    2.  Discuss the limitations of your data analysis.

    3.  Recommend a course of action based on your results.

<!-- -->

1.  Provide a Panopto video recording that includes a demonstration of
    the functionality of the code used for the analysis and a summary of
    the tool(s) used.


# RUBRIC

**A1:**

## COMPETENT

The submission provides a speciﬁc question to be addressed through the
analysis of the data set using one of the listed analysis techniques.
The question is relevant to the chosen data set.

**A2:**

## COMPETENT

The explanation correctly addresses how stakeholders in the organization
could beneﬁt from the data analysis.

**A3:**

## COMPETENT

The submission correctly identiﬁes the speciﬁc data within the data set
that are relevant to addressing the question from part A1.

**B1:CODE**

## COMPETENT

The submission includes a warning- and error-free code to accurately an-
alyze the data set using 1 of the given techniques.

**B2:OUTPUT**

## COMPETENT

The submission includes the output from running the code and the results
of *all *calculations performed.

**B3:**

## COMPETENT

The justiﬁcation addresses why the chosen method of analysis was se-
lected. The justiﬁed technique is one of the three listed in part B1.
The technique is sufﬁcient and appropri- ate for the chosen data set and
ad- dresses the question in part A1.

**C:**

## COMPETENT

The submission accurately identiﬁes the distribution of 2 continuous and
2 categorical variables using univariate statistics.

**C1:**

## COMPETENT

The submission accurately repre- sents the distribution of the variables
in part C.

cal variables, but not all 4 variables, in part C. Or the visual
representa- tion contains inaccuracies.

**D:**

## COMPETENT

The submission accurately identiﬁes the distribution of 2 continuous and
2 categorical variables using bivariate statistics.

**D1:**

## COMPETENT

The submission accurately repre- sents the distribution of the variables
in part D.

**E1:**

## COMPETENT

The discussion includes accurate and complete results of the hypothesis
test.

**E2:**

## COMPETENT

The explanation includes the limita- tions of the data analysis and does
not include limitations that do not ap- ply to the analysis.

**E3:**

## COMPETENT

The recommendation includes *both *a response to the question from part

A1, or the recommendation is miss- ing speciﬁc actions that could be
taken in response to the analysis. Or the recommendation is irrelevant
to the situation or question or would not plausibly address the
situation or question.

A1 and speciﬁc actions that could be taken in response to the analysis.
The recommendation is relevant to the situation and question and would
plausibly address the situation and question.

**F:VIDEO** 

## COMPETENT

The submission provides a Panopto video recording that accurately
demonstrates the functionality of the code and summarizes the tools
used.

**G:SOURCES FOR THIRD-PARTY CODE**

## COMPETENT

The submission lists *all *web sources used to acquire third-party code,
and the referenced web sources are reliable.

**H:**

## COMPETENT

The submission includes in-text cita- tions for sources that are
properly quoted, paraphrased, or summarized and a reference list that
accurately identiﬁes the author, date, title, and source location as
available.

**I:**

## COMPETENT

Content reﬂects attention to detail, is organized, and focuses on the
main ideas as prescribed in the task or cho- sen by the candidate.
Terminology is pertinent, is used correctly, and ef- fectively conveys
the intended mean- ing. Mechanics, usage, and grammar

promote accurate interpretation and understanding.

# WEB LINKS

If you have trouble with the link, copy and paste the link directly into
your web browser.

If you have trouble with the link, copy and paste the link directly into
your web browser.

Sign in using the "WGU" option. If prompted, log in with your WGU
student portal credentials, which should forward you to Panopto's
website. If you have any problems accessing Panopto, please contact
Assessment Services at It may take up to two business days to receive
your WGU Panopto recording permissions once you have begun the course.
